# Cluster tree plot

Visualize how cells move between clusters across multiple Seurat
clustering resolutions.

## Usage

``` r
ClusterTreePlot(
  srt,
  cluster_cols = NULL,
  prefix = NULL,
  resolutions = NULL,
  features = NULL,
  assay = NULL,
  layer = "data",
  edge_threshold = 0,
  node_palette = "Spectral",
  node_palcolor = NULL,
  edge_palette = "YlOrRd",
  edge_palcolor = NULL,
  node_size = c(3, 10),
  edge_size = c(0.25, 1.8),
  label = TRUE,
  label.size = 3,
  label.fg = "black",
  title = "Cluster tree",
  subtitle = NULL,
  xlab = "Resolution",
  ylab = "Cluster",
  legend.position = "right",
  theme_use = "theme_scop",
  theme_args = list(),
  combine = TRUE,
  ncol = NULL,
  return_data = FALSE,
  verbose = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- srt:

  A Seurat object.

- cluster_cols:

  Metadata columns containing clustering results at different
  resolutions. If `NULL`, columns generated by
  `Seurat::FindClusters(resolution = c(...))` are detected
  automatically.

- prefix:

  Optional prefix used to filter automatically detected clustering
  columns, for example `"RNA_snn"`.

- resolutions:

  Optional numeric vector used to filter automatically detected
  resolutions.

- features:

  A character vector or a named list of features to plot. Features can
  be gene names in Assay or names of numeric columns in meta.data.

- assay:

  Which assay to use. If `NULL`, the default assay of the Seurat object
  will be used. When the object also contains `ChromatinAssay`, the
  default assay and additional `ChromatinAssay` will be preprocessed
  sequentially.

- layer:

  Which layer to use. Default is `data`.

- edge_threshold:

  Minimum incoming proportion required to draw an edge. Edges below this
  threshold are still available when `return_data = TRUE`.

- node_palette, node_palcolor:

  Palette used for node colors.

- edge_palette, edge_palcolor:

  Palette used for edge colors.

- node_size:

  Numeric range used for node sizes.

- edge_size:

  Numeric range used for edge widths.

- label:

  Whether the feature name is labeled in the center of the location of
  cells with high expression.

- label.size:

  Size of labels.

- label.fg:

  Foreground color of label.

- title:

  The text for the title. Default is `NULL`.

- subtitle:

  The text for the subtitle for the plot which will be displayed below
  the title. Default is `NULL`.

- xlab:

  The x-axis label of the plot. Default is `NULL`.

- ylab:

  The y-axis label of the plot. Default is `NULL`.

- legend.position:

  The position of legends, one of `"none"`, `"left"`, `"right"`,
  `"bottom"`, `"top"`. Default is `"right"`.

- theme_use:

  Theme used. Can be a character string or a theme function. Default is
  `"theme_scop"`.

- theme_args:

  Other arguments passed to the `theme_use`. Default is
  [`list()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/list.html).

- combine:

  Combine plots into a single `patchwork` object. If `FALSE`, return a
  list of ggplot objects.

- ncol:

  Number of columns in the combined plot. Default is `NULL`, which means
  determined automatically based on the number of plots.

- return_data:

  Whether to return plot data along with the plot.

- verbose:

  Whether to print the message. Default is `TRUE`.

## Value

A `ggplot`, `patchwork`, list of `ggplot` objects, or a list with plot
data when `return_data = TRUE`.

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
data(pancreas_sub)
pancreas_sub <- standard_scop(pancreas_sub, verbose = FALSE)
pancreas_sub <- Seurat::FindClusters(
  pancreas_sub,
  resolution = seq(0.2, 1, by = 0.2),
  verbose = FALSE
)
ClusterTreePlot(pancreas_sub)

ClusterTreePlot(
  pancreas_sub,
  features = c("Ins1", "Gcg")
)
} # }
```
